2022-12-09
The spirit of Ukraine is the spirit of freedom that echoes in the souls of people around the world - President's speech at the Time event dedicated to the announcement of remarkable people and events of 2022
Ladies and Gentlemen! 
I thank you for your attention! 
Thank you for supporting Ukraine!
Слава Україні!

                                            

                                            

                                        
It is an honor for me – to represent the struggle of Ukrainians and the Spirit of Ukraine.
The spirit of freedom, that echoes in the souls of so many people around the world... 
Stories of heroes, who are fighting for independence, are also – your stories.
Ordinary men and women who became brave-hearts, when they joined the Defence Forces to defend freedom, – different generations of different nations knew this spirit.
Doctors, who save the wounded under bombs, during blackouts or in occupation – no matter what it takes. It is about humanness, that we all value so dearly.
Farmers, who work the land under the roaring guns. It is about natural desire to live and take care of one’s families and communities.
Journalists, who spread the truth – it is in the history of how to resist tyrants. The history, which began even before the word “journalism” appeared.
This is what inspires across all continents – freedom fighters, who may possess nothing, but courage to defeat those with armored vehicles and repression experience. When freedom wins and tyranny collapses, people are smiling the same way all over the globe.
Lawyers, who do not yet see the upcoming victory in war, but are already working to ensure that war criminals are brought to justice, – this is the Nuremberg Trials story with many other just verdicts, that were delivered to those, who believed in their impunity.
This is the spirit! You have already seen the spirit of Ukraine on the covers of Time Magazine – not on each one, but on many. They were not Ukrainians – on the covers before, but they were – courage, striving for freedom, solidarity, creativity and dedication, – values well known to the mankind from a long time ago and which united the world this year with the colors of the Ukrainian national flag and our people’s achievements. 
This is the free world spirit. And let's do everything for our spirit to win!
