2022-11-15
Russia is told about peace, it responds with missiles - address by the President of Ukraine
Fellow Ukrainians!
Glory to all who defend freedom!
Glory to all who work for our victory!
Eternal memory to all those whose lives were taken by terrorists!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
Today, the enemy launched another massive missile attack on our country.
A total of 90 missiles. Energy system, enterprises, and residential buildings were damaged.
And when did it happen?
As soon as the first day of the G20 summit ended in Indonesia, the most significant statements were made, the key meetings took place.
Russia is told about peace, but it fires missiles in response. It is told about the global crises that Russia caused, and it launches Iranian drones in response.
It is offered ten points to end the war, and it fires ten missiles per each point about peace.
At half past three this morning I joined the summit to present our proposals for restoring international peace and order. The world heard Ukraine. G19 members made their statements...
And then in Moscow they decided that they could try again to achieve with terror what they could not and would not be able to achieve for the ninth month.
15:24 - rocket, Kyiv. And throughout the country... How we lived today...
15:54 – rocket, Kropyvnytskyi. 
15:56 – two rockets, Kirovohrad region.
15:56 – rocket, Zhytomyr region. And also - Ivano-Frankivsk region, Rivne region, Kharkiv region...
16:29 – rocket, Kryvyi Rih.
16:29 – rocket, Poltava region.
16:35 – Zhytomyr region again. Kyiv region, Lviv region, Odesa region, Mykolaiv region. And also - Volyn, Khmelnytskyi, Ternopil region... And again Kyiv.
Killed and wounded people. My condolences to the families!
In many cities and regions of our country, there are again emergency blackouts. About ten million Ukrainians are without electricity. Most of them - as of this moment - in Kharkiv region, Zhytomyr region, Kyiv region and Lviv region. Lviv and some other cities suspended the supply of heat... All over the country there are problems with communication and the Internet.
As a result of the strikes, automation today disabled several nuclear units at two stations - these are calculated consequences, and the enemy knew exactly what he was doing.
This is the answer of Russia to Indonesia, India, China and all other countries that talked about the need to end the war. Russia is telling the world that it wants to continue. Now it is time for the world to answer.
Moreover, what we warned about a long time ago happened today. We’ve been telling this. Terror is not limited to our national borders. It has already spread to the territory of Moldova. And today, Russian missiles hit Poland, the territory of our friendly country. People died. Please accept condolences from all Ukrainian brothers!
How many times has Ukraine said that the terrorist state will not be limited to our country?
Poland, the Baltic states... It's only a matter of time before Russian terror goes further. We must put the terrorist in his place! The longer Russia feels impunity, the more threats there will be to everyone who can be reached by Russian missiles.
Hitting NATO territory with missiles... This is a Russian missile attack on collective security! This is a really significant escalation. Action is needed.
And I want to tell all our Polish brothers and sisters now... Ukraine will always support you! Terror will not break free people! Victory is possible when there is no fear! We don't have it, neither do you.
I want to thank all partners who help protect the sky. In particular, our NASAMS systems worked well today: ten hits out of ten launches.
As of this hour, more than 70 missiles and 10 combat drones have been shot down.
I thank all our American and European friends who help us ensure such a result.
I am also grateful to all our warriors of the "South", "Center", "East" and "West" air commands, as well as air defense units of the Ground Forces.
I am grateful to all our rescuers, our energy workers who will work round the clock to restore normal life for Ukrainians. Restoration work has begun across the country.
We will get through this too. We will restore everything.
Russia opposes itself to the world. Russia loses on the battlefield. Russia terrorizes us and everyone it can reach. Let's do everything to stop it!
