2022-11-24
Ukraine proposes to adopt a resolution condemning energy terror - speech by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the meeting of the UN Security Council convened after the missile strikes of the Russian Federation
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen!
Ladies and Gentlemen!
Your decisions are needed!
Thank you for the opportunity!
Thank you for your attention!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
We expect a strong reaction from the world to today's Russian terror. We expect the reaction of partners. We expect the reaction of friends - not just observers. We expect the reaction of all those who really recognize the UN Charter.
We are doing everything possible. Ukraine presented the Peace Formula. The world heard it.
10 points - how to restore the full power of the UN Charter violated by Russia, and guarantee the safety of Ukraine, the safety of Europe and all the peoples of the planet who suffer from the consequences of Russian aggression.
In response to our Peace Formula, Russia is following the steps of its formula of terror.
The very next day after I proposed the Ukrainian Peace Formula at the G19 summit in Indonesia, we received ten Russian missiles per each point of the Peace Formula. 
The strikes continued.
We liberated Kherson - and as soon as the Russian army fled from there, it began to methodically destroy this city. Strikes every day.
This night – another missile attack on the Zaporizhzhia region, on the hospital – on the buildings where the maternity ward was located. Russian terrorists took the life of a baby - the child was 2 days old when it was killed by a Russian missile!
And then again - dead, dead, dozens of wounded. In the city of Vyshhorod this afternoon, a residential building was hit, 35 people were injured, 4 were killed.
This is one of the main points of the Russian formula of terror - missiles.
Only today - almost 70 missiles. Against our energy infrastructure.
Unfortunately, a residential building was also hit.
Hospitals, schools, transport, residential areas - everything was affected.
Russian terror led to a blackout – and not only in Ukraine. The light also went out in neighboring Moldova.
But the understanding of what Russia wants to achieve with such strikes should not disappear anywhere in the world.
Energy terror is an analogue of the use of weapons of mass destruction.
When the temperature is below zero outside, and tens of millions of people are left without electricity, heat and water as a result of Russian missiles hitting energy facilities, this is an obvious crime against humanity.
Among you are representatives of a state that offers nothing to the world except terror, destabilization and disinformation. Any Russian formulas do not provide for anything else.
And that's why I emphasize once again - it's time to support the Ukrainian Peace Formula!
There must be no opportunity left for terror in the world!
That is why we are turning to our partners for support to protect our skies. We need modern and effective air defense and missile defense systems, and I thank everyone who is already helping.
What can a representative of a terrorist state tell you now? That civilians do not suffer from their missiles? Everything is obvious. It's all too obvious.
And I urge you to take concrete steps to protect humanity and life!
Russia has long been trying to turn the UN Security Council into a platform for rhetoric. But the Security Council was created as the world's most powerful platform for decisions and actions. This is what we can demonstrate.
The Security Council should provide a clear assessment of the actions of the terrorist state in accordance with Chapter Seven of the UN Charter. Ukraine proposes that the Security Council adopt such a resolution condemning any forms of energy terror.
Let's see if anyone in the world will be able to say, along with Russia, that terror against civilians is supposedly a good thing.
I confirm the invitation from Ukraine regarding the mission of UN experts to critical infrastructure facilities of our country that have been or may be hit by Russian missiles.
It is necessary to give a proper assessment of damage and destruction. It should be stated that these are strikes against the very infrastructure that ensures the lives of tens of millions of people.
And finally, justice must be restored within the UN structures themselves.
The terrorist state should not participate in any voting on the issues of its aggression, its terror.
It is a stalemate when the one who caused the war, the one responsible for the terror, blocks any attempt by the UN Security Council to fulfill its mandate.
This is nonsense that the veto right is reserved for the one who is waging a criminal war.
It is necessary to lead the world out of this impasse.
It is absolutely possible.
The world should not be held hostage by one international terrorist.
Russia is doing everything to make the electric generator a more powerful and necessary tool than the UN Charter. We must and can return real meaning to all things - and above all to the UN Charter.
