2022-10-12
The entire Russian terror machine must and will be neutralized - address by the President of Ukraine
Good health to you, fellow Ukrainians!
Gratitude to everyone who brings our victory closer!
Gratitude to everyone who helps Ukraine!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
I’ve just taken part in the work of the second ministerial roundtable discussion of donor countries, the IMF and the World Bank, which help our country maintain financial stability.
The key issue is covering our budget deficit and quickly rebuilding critical infrastructure, housing and social facilities that have been destroyed or damaged by the occupiers' strikes.
We are talking about significant amounts - tens of billions of dollars for the budget and the Fast Recovery. But the potential of democratic countries is much greater than the existing needs. Therefore, we are consolidating the support of partners for the sake of Ukraine. We are creating a financial "Ramstein" - a systemic tool for constant support of our struggle for freedom.
Another meeting took place today in the format of the defense "Ramstein". Quite productive. First of all, they discussed providing our country with anti-aircraft and anti-missile defense systems.
The more audacious and cruel Russian terror becomes, the more obvious it is to the world that helping Ukraine to protect the sky is one of the most important humanitarian tasks for Europe of our time. I believe that we will cope with this task.
And I am grateful to those of our partners who have already made a decision to strengthen such support for our state - support for effective defense in the air.
By the way, today I want to celebrate the fighters of our Air Forces in the southern direction. Good results were achieved there, in particular, four Russian attack helicopters and more than ten Iranian-made attack drones were shot down. We had to defend our sky today in other directions as well.
We have positive news from the defense "Ramstein" related to the additional strengthening of our army with modern artillery. I am grateful to the partners!
Recovery after a two-day Russian missile attack continued across the country today. At that time, energy facilities were damaged in 12 regions and in the capital.
As of now, the technical capability of electricity supply has been fully restored in most regions. In four regions, work is ongoing, repairs should be completed shortly.
Our energy workers in some cities and districts have to use stabilization blackout schedules. This is necessary solely to maintain the normal operation of the entire energy system in such conditions - in conditions where electricity production has decreased.
And I want to once again thank all our people who approached this situation consciously and make their very important contribution to guaranteeing the normal operation of Ukraine's energy system. It is worth continuing to distribute your electricity consumption by the hours of the day, in order to use as little as possible equipment that requires a significant amount of electricity during peak hours.
Today I would also like to thank all the heads of regions, mayors of cities and heads of communities, who significantly reduced electricity consumption in the utilities sector. It is important!
The situation remains tough in all areas bordering the frontline. Tonight, the occupiers shelled Nikopol of the Dnipropetrovsk region with Grad and artillery. Among the wounded is a child, a girl born in 2016. An extremely serious wound...
In the morning, Russian terrorists shelled Avdiivka, Donetsk region. Central Market. The occupiers used Grad. As of now, 7 people were killed and 12 were wounded.
Our intelligence, special services, law enforcement agencies are finding out all the details regarding these and other Russian strikes. No Russian terrorist will manage to remain unknown to justice - we will find out all the names and all the details.
Ukraine will bring to justice every Russian murderer and torturer - from commanders to privates who carried out criminal orders. By the way, we will not forget about the propagandists of terror as well. All those who justify Russian terror and incite aggression, all those who call for murder and encourage torturing of our people will be held to account on an equal footing with murderers and torturers.
The entire Russian terror machine must be neutralized. And it will be neutralized.
