2022-12-30
In the new year Ukrainian air defense will become stronger, more effective – address of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy

                                            

                                            

                                        
I held another meeting of the Staff – already the 45th this year.
The main thing is Donetsk region, Luhansk region – our Donbas, where the fiercest battles are going on. Bakhmut, Soledar, Kreminna... In general, we hold our positions. There are also areas of the front where we are slowly advancing. And I thank all our soldiers who ensure this. You are real heroes!
We discussed the situation in the south, on our border, the supply of weapons, and the further strengthening of air defense.
This year, we not only maintained our air defenses, but we made them stronger than ever. But in the new year Ukrainian air defense will become even stronger, even more effective.
Ukrainian air defense can become the most powerful in Europe, and this will be a guarantee of security not only for our country, but also for the entire continent.
After the meeting of the Staff, at a separate meeting we discussed the situation in the energy industry, what we are preparing for.
We have a clear strategy for ensuring the generation and supply of electricity. It takes time to implement it. It takes a lot of effort. But it will be. It will be mandatory. It is one of the most important tasks for the next year, and I have no doubt that we will accomplish it.
Today I spoke with the Prime Minister of Greece. We summarized the year, and I thanked Greece for supporting our country. We agreed for next year how we can make cooperation even more meaningful.
I held a meeting with our diplomats. There are many questions, but the main thing is the measures we are preparing to strengthen Ukraine already in January and February.
Ukraine will retain the achieved leadership in foreign policy and will be even more active, that's for sure.
And one more.
Today, for the first time, the ceremony of awarding our volunteers with the Golden Heart took place.
It is fair and honest – at the end of the year, to recognize those who help our defense, help people and our entire state all year long.
Thank you to everyone who fights for our country. Who helps Ukrainians. Who works for Ukraine and our future.
 
