2023-04-01
Today, the terrorist state began to chair the UN Security Council, and yesterday the Russian army killed another Ukrainian child – address of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy

                                            

                                            

                                        
I signed two decrees on sanctions against those who work for Russian aggression.
These are officials of the aggressor state, its defense industry – hundreds of companies – and collaborators. It is about more than 650 newly sanctioned persons.
The NSDC will continue this work. And none of those who help terrorists, work for them, supply or manufacture weapons for terror – none will escape liability.
The blocking of accomplices of terror, the isolation of the terrorist state, its defeat, and trials are what await all those who started and are waging war against Ukraine and the international order.
By the way, this week Switzerland joined the tenth sanctions package of the European Union.
It is important when the states that are neutral in the military-political sense nevertheless take a clear moral position towards Russian terror, towards Russia's destruction of the global order based on rules.
Only in unity can we preserve peace as the basis of international relations, and I thank Switzerland for the relevant decisions.
I spoke today with President of France Emmanuel Macron. In detail, one hour. About the situation at the front, our political interaction, about how we are moving in implementing the Ukrainian Peace Formula. Thank you, France for your unwavering support.
In general, the week brought a number of positive news for Ukraine, for our defense, and for defending the regular life of all free nations.

Within the framework of the OSCE, work on the first separate international report, which will be dedicated to Russia's forced deportation of Ukrainian children and attempts to assimilate our children, began.
This crime committed by Russia is one of the most cynical and anti-human crimes of our time.
Russia commits it systematically and calculates it, at the state level. Accountability for it will be systemic too. Accountability of Russia as a state and everyone involved.
Thanks to Germany for the new steps in defense support that were taken this week.
Thanks to Croatia for another defense support package. Thanks to North Macedonia for the decision on helicopters. Thanks to Slovakia, Slovenia.
Thank you to Canada for the financial support, the funds have already arrived in the state budget of Ukraine.
Thanks to the IMF for the new programme for Ukraine. The programme is approved. The size is more than $15 billion. This will help us preserve social stability.
Unfortunately, we also have news that is obviously absurd and destructive. Today, the terrorist state began to chair the UN Security Council.
Yesterday, the Russian army killed another Ukrainian child – a five-month-old boy named Danylo. From Avdiyivka, in Donbas, together with his parents who were injured. Russian artillery... One of the hundreds of artillery strikes that the terrorist state launches every day.

And at the same time, Russia chairs the UN Security Council.
It is hard to imagine something evident that proves the complete bankruptcy of such institutions...
There is no such form of terror that has not yet been committed by Russia. And there will be no such reason that will stop the reform of global institutions, in particular, the UN Security Council. The reform that is clearly overdue – so that a terrorist state and any other state that wants to be a terrorist cannot disrupt the peace.
Terrorists must lose, must be held accountable for terror, and not preside anywhere.
Glory to all who are now in battle!
I thank everyone who helps Ukraine. Who defends the international order based on rules! Thank you to everyone who saves and helps save our people after being injured by Russian shelling!
Eternal memory to all adults and children whose lives were taken by the terror of Russia!
