2023-05-06
We must return and will return all our people from Russian captivity – address by the President of Ukraine
Good health to you, fellow Ukrainians!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
Today is an important day for our warriors, the Day of the Ukrainian Infantry.
It is a professional holiday for defenders that always deserves special attention.
The largest component of the Ground Forces, those whose resilience is crucial for defense. Those whose effectiveness is especially important.
I had the honor to congratulate our infantrymen today, to present state awards to the warriors and honorary decorations to our brigades for their courage and bravery. The 10th separate mountain assault brigade, the 14th separate mechanized brigade, the 56th separate motorized infantry brigade... Thank you, warriors, for your performance! I thank each and every one of you who has the honor to serve in the Ukrainian infantry!
Today I handed over the Order of the Gold Star to the family of our Hero, Captain Valerii Hliebov. He was killed in action. He was the commander of the motorized infantry company of the motorized infantry battalion of the 93rd separate mechanized brigade "Kholodny Yar".
This chevron, the chevron of the Hero of Ukraine, was given to me by his daughter Victoria. I will keep it. It is a great honor for me.
Today, our team managed to bring back 45 more of our warriors from Russian captivity. 42 male defenders of Ukraine and 3 female defenders. They all defended Azovstal. National Guardsmen. 35 privates and sergeants, 10 officers.
We must return and will return all our people from Russian captivity! I am grateful to our team involved in exchanges. Budanov, Yermak, Usov, Malyuk, Lubinets. Thank you, guys!
Today I met with representatives of Utah, one of the strongest states in America. We discussed our cooperation, and this is a good example of how a particular state can help protect freedom and people. Humanitarian support, assistance in reconstruction, political cooperation. We have enough opportunities to work together for the common interests of Ukrainians and Americans.
And one more thing. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the First Lady of Ukraine are representing our country in the United Kingdom, where the coronation of King Charles III and Queen Camilla took place.
On behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, I congratulate Their Majesties, true friends of Ukraine, on this historic event that begins a new era of the British monarchy. I wish King Charles III many years of successful reign, and the people of the United Kingdom – prosperity and joint victories with us.
It was an honor for me to meet His Majesty in person in London, I remember our conversation, I remember the sincere emotion for Ukraine and Ukrainians. And thank you for your support! Thank you to all the British people!
Thank you to each and every one who helps protect life and freedom!
Glory to all our warriors who are now in combat! Glory to our beautiful people!
