2023-01-01
President of Ukraine: Our sense of unity and authenticity contrasts dramatically with the fear that prevails in Russia
I wish you health, dear Ukrainians!
We will do everything to make it so!
Glory to all our warriors!
Glory to each and everyone who works for the victory of Ukraine!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
New year, new day, new summaries. 45 "Shaheds" were shot down on the first night of the year.
I thank our Air Forces - pilots, anti-aircraft warriors. 33 "Shaheds" are on their account. Gratitude to the air defense of our Ground Forces for another 12 downed Iranian drones. Well done, guys!
Russian terrorists were pathetic, and they entered this year staying the same. Our defenders were awesome, and on January 1 they showed themselves very well.
You know, these days it was clearly seen how far we have moved away, mentally, humanly from what Russia is "boiling" in. Our sense of unity, authenticity, life itself - all this contrasts dramatically with the fear that prevails in Russia.
They are afraid. You can feel it. And they are right to be afraid. Because they are losing. Drones, missiles, anything else will not help them. Because we are together. And they are together only with fear.
And they will not take away a single year from Ukraine, they will not take away our independence. We will not give them anything.
I thank everyone who is fighting the enemy at the frontline every day and every night! We respond to every Russian strike at Kherson, Nikopol, Kharkiv region, all our cities and communities. It is very tangible for them.
I am grateful to all our energy workers, utility workers for stable energy supply and a minimum of outages - taking into account all the existing circumstances. Wherever transmission lines and other energy facilities are damaged by shelling, the restoration continues around the clock. Today as well.
And it is very important how all Ukrainians recharged their inner energy this New Year's Eve.
And how we thanked our warriors. How we thanked our loved ones. How millions of times all over Ukraine, all over the free world, our wish - the wish of victory - has sounded and still sounds.
