2023-04-22
The task is to remove any opportunity for Russia to circumvent sanctions – address of Ukraine's President
Dear Ukrainians, I wish you health!
Glory to Ukraine!

                                            

                                            

                                        
Three new decisions on sanctions against those who invest in and support Russian aggression entered into force today.
Firstly, this is another package of sanctions against the Russian defense industry enterprises that maintain the terrorist army. This time, 322 companies were added to the sanctions lists – manufacturers of weapons, components, etc.
The other two sanctions lists include individuals and legal entities that help circumvent sanctions against Russia, keep the property of war criminals, and are involved in the destruction of freedom both on the territory of Russia itself and on our land.
Our sanctions packages are being worked out in detail, in particular, regarding their synchronization with partners. It is one of the key common tasks of all of us – absolutely everyone who seeks a faster end to the war, a faster victory for us. The task is to remove any opportunity for Russia to circumvent sanctions. Every Russian scheme that makes it possible to bypass sanctions makes this war longer, adds opportunities for the aggressor.
Accordingly, the tougher the sanctions regime against Russia, the more restrictions against the terrorist state and all related persons, against the entire Russian war economy, the faster the end of the aggression will be. And I thank everyone in the world who understands this.
It is important that global restrictive work on the Russian nuclear industry has begun.
This industry not only generates funds for the aggressor's budget, but also helps to make dependent other states, on the territory of which allegedly "energy" nuclear projects are being implemented. Any energy is a weapon for the Kremlin. For them, nuclear energy is also a weapon.
And this, by the way, is exactly what is happening at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which Russia uses precisely as a weapon to blackmail the world. To use a disaster as blackmail.
And it is good that the UK, the United States, France, Japan, and Canada have created an alliance that should remove the nuclear industry of the terrorist state from the global market.
Separately, I would like to thank the United States and Canada for the new defense support packages for our soldiers. Thank you, friends!
The Netherlands – thank you for strengthening air defense and for the joint decision with Denmark on tanks.
I'm thankful to Germany. We have new steps that will bring more peace to our skies and… there may be new steps that would bring more peace to our land. We await these decisions.
I'm thankful to Estonia, Finland for the new defense packages. I'm thankful to Slovakia for the aircraft.
I'm thankful to Switzerland for the new sanctions against Russian terrorists.
We are preparing the next week in relations with partners to be no less fruitful than this one. Each such result for Ukraine is the saved lives of our people. It is the ability of our soldiers to protect the lives, repel Russian assaults and prepare active Ukrainian actions.
I thank all our soldiers who are now in battle! Especially those who are currently in the toughest places of the frontline – Maryinka and Bakhmut, Avdiyivka, Lyman direction. That's where it's most intense.
Thank you to the soldiers of the Armed Forces, the National Guard, the border guards...
Separately, today I would like to mention the Defense Intelligence unit of Tymur fighting in Bakhmut. Thank you, guys, for your courage and efficiency!
Glory to all our soldiers!
Glory to all our heroes of different times who fought for our independence!
Ukraine will always be free!
