2023-07-05
Andriy Yermak held a second meeting with representatives of foreign diplomatic missions on the implementation of the points of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's Peace Formula Pursuant to the President's instructions, Head of the Office of the President of U

                                            

                                            

                                        
Pursuant to the President's instructions, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine Andriy Yermak held consultations with foreign diplomats on the implementation of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's ten-point Peace Formula. In particular, the parties discussed issues of radiation, nuclear, food and energy security, as well as the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
"The support of each of you is very important for us, as there are people at this table who respect the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of our country, and it is extremely important for us to hear you," said Andriy Yermak at the beginning of the meeting.
The event was attended by ambassadors from the G7 and G19 countries, the Head of the EU Delegation to Ukraine, and heads of diplomatic missions from Türkiye, South Africa, China, Denmark, Brazil, India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and the Vatican.
The meeting was a continuation of the previous consultations held on June 30 this year. Representatives of foreign countries noted the constructiveness and substantive nature of the event and expressed support for Ukraine's efforts to achieve peace. All participants of the consultations agreed to continue working in the chosen format to develop effective solutions for the implementation of the Ukrainian Peace Formula.
Special attention within the meeting held at the Coordination Headquarters for the Treatment of Prisoners of War was paid to consultations on the release of military and civilian prisoners held by Russia.
The event was attended by Major Dmytro Andriushchenko, Commanding Officer of the Azov National Guard Brigade, and State Border Guard Service Lieutenant Oleksandra Kruchenko - defenders of Mariupol and Azovstal who survived Russian captivity and were released in October 2022.Andriy Yermak noted that the Coordination Headquarters was established on the instructions of the President of Ukraine and opened last March, and today's meeting at the headquarters emphasizes the importance of the issue of the release of prisoners for the Ukrainian state and the President personally.
"The release of all prisoners and deportees is one of the points of the Peace Formula initiated by Volodymyr Zelenskyy, and our state continues to actively consult with all interested countries on its implementation," he stated.
Chief of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, Head of the Coordination Headquarters Kyrylo Budanov and representative of the Main Intelligence Directorate and the Coordination Headquarters Ihor Sybiha informed the ambassadors about the results of the work of the Headquarters and the programs it implements. The Deputy Chief of the Main Intelligence Directorate Dmytro Usov briefed the foreign diplomats on the work of the Coordination Headquarters, which is engaged in the search and release of captured military and civilian citizens of Ukraine, support of defenders' families in social protection and procedural issues, reintegration and post-isolation support for defenders of Ukraine and their families.
Kyrylo Budanov briefed the participants on the situation at the Zaporizhzhia NPP and emphasized that the only way to protect Ukraine and the world from the nuclear threat is to withdraw Russian troops from the plant and allow the IAEA and Ukrainian experts there.
Andriy Yermak noted in this context: "Ukraine is ready to present its vision of the concept of safety at nuclear facilities, which could become the basis for many countries of the world. I propose to discuss it at the next consultation in this format".
