2023-05-16
We are Europeans, so we act at one hundred percent of our strength when it comes to protecting our way of life – speech by the President of Ukraine at the opening of the Fourth Summit of the Council of Europe
Thank you so much!
Dear leaders of Europe! 
Thank you for support!
Cлава Україні! 
Glory to all Europe!

                                            

                                            

                                        
Prime Minister Jakobsdóttir, dear Katrin, thank you for invitation to participate in the Summit of our Council of Europe and for your sincere desire to help Ukraine.
Today, Ukraine went through a difficult challenge – an intense Russian missile attack. Such challenges are what we all have to pay attention to now.
At three o'clock in the morning, our people woke up to explosions... Eighteen Russian missiles of different types were in our sky – in particular, ballistic ones, which the terrorist state has boasted about. We were told such missiles would bring a guaranteed death, because they are supposedly impossible to shoot down.
Russia used ballistics, cruise missiles, drones at the same time – to make it especially difficult for our air defence to save lives. But all lives were protected – all missiles were shot down, including ballistic ones. One hundred percent! This is a historical result. Thank you all!
Russia is trying very hard to improve its ability to kill. We are trying very hard to improve the protection of our people. And I thank all the countries and leaders who help us to improve our air defence! All together we are showing what our one hundred percent mean, and what the power of the free world means.
And of course I thank every our soldier who makes this job done – in our skies and on our land, and especially I thank each and every one who trains our warriors in different train missions which are all similar in one point – in success. Thanks to all of them! Thanks to all of you!
A year ago, we were not able to shoot down most of the terrorists' missiles, especially ballistic ones. And I am asking one thing now: if we’re able to do this, is there anything we can't do when we’re united and determined to protect lives? The answer is that we, in unity, will give one hundred percent in any field – when we have a goal to protect our people and our Europe.
Of course, there is still much to be done. Ukraine's territory is big, and to make air defence results like last night's the rule throughout the country, we need additional air defence systems and missiles. We also need modern fighter jets, without which no air defence system will be perfect. And I am sure we will get there.
One hundred percent should be our benchmark. We must leave zero percent to the aggressor!
One hundred percent of success of defence operations is guaranteed by weapons and training of our soldiers. I thank everyone who strengthens our defense! 
One hundred percent of success of sanctions is guaranteed by honesty in every state policy. I am grateful to all those who treat the fight against terror in this way – honestly! 
One hundred percent of success of our Peace Formula is guaranteed by diplomacy. I thank everyone who helps us unite the world to implement the Peace Formula, the only realistic peace plan! 
And of course one hundred percent of justice, as there will be no reliable peace without justice.
I thank the Council of Europe – each and every of you personally! – for the decision on the Register of Damages caused by Russia's aggression. This brings closer the creation of a full-fledged Compensation Mechanism that will show the world that aggression is not worth even thinking about. 
There should also be a Special Tribunal for the crime of aggression – so that those, whose heads this terror was born in, are brought to responsibility. I am sure that we will provide this result for one hundred percent.
Europe has been waiting for such times – times when leaders would act in one hundred percent unity and with one hundred percent results for the sake of protecting Europe, for the sake of our common values.
And finally this is what we are achieving now! Ukraine, all of Europe, and everyone who is currently at this Summit and who helps us.
We are Europeans, so we are free. We are Europeans, so we value peace. We are Europeans, so we act at one hundred percent of our strength when it comes to protecting our way of life. Let these be forever the rules of our continent!
