2023-05-21
We need global leadership of democracy - President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's speech at the session of the G7 Summit and Ukraine 
Dear colleagues!
Dear colleagues!
Thank you, President Biden, 
Thank you, Olaf, Mr. Chancellor, 
Thank you, Rishi, dear Prime Minister,
Thank you, Emmanuel, Mr. President, 
Thank you, Giorgia Meloni,
Thank you, Justin, dear Prime Minister,
Thank you, Charles, thank you, Ursula,
Thank you, Fumio, dear Prime Minister,
Dear colleagues!
Thank you.

                                            

                                            

                                        
Mr. Kishida, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for the invitation to attend the Summit.
During this war, Ukraine has already participated in the G7 meetings six times, but online only. Now is the time for a personal gratitude.
Together with you and all of our allies and partners, we have achieved such a level of cooperation which ensures that democracy, international law, and freedom are respected.
There have been attempts to ignore and disregard what we value. But now it is impossible. Now our power is growing. Anyone who might want to wage aggression against a democratic country sees what the response will be. And the more we all work together, the less likely anyone else in the world will follow Russia's insane path. But is this enough?
Democracy needs more. I think we need the clear global leadership of democracy. This is the main thing that we provide with our cooperation.
Let me give you a few examples.
For years, we have heard that Russia can attack any country with impunity using hypersonic missiles that seem to be unstoppable. Russia wanted us to get scared and to betray our values, at some point. Well, that's over. “Patriots” in the hands of Ukrainians have shown what democracy is capable of.
Together we have proven that the question is not how many missiles our common enemy has, but how many air defense systems we have. Patriots, IRIS-T, NASAMS, Crotale, SAMP-T – they protect life in our cities and thus create a global brand of security for democracy.
When Ukraine has enough of air defense systems to protect all our cities, the world will see what kind of air shield democracy can create. We decide – not our enemy – what the sky security will be like.
I thank you, dear leaders, who helped Ukraine with air defense! Together we’ve saved thousands and thousands of lives from Russian missiles.
I am also grateful for the decision to train our pilots on modern fighter aircrafts.
The air shield can only be complete when ground-based air defense systems are complemented by modern aircraft in the air. We are now on the path to eliminating the capability gap.
When our pilots know the F16 and when these aircraft appear in our skies, it will matter not only for Ukraine. This will be a historic moment for the entire security architecture in Europe and the world.
For almost 15 months of full-scale war, we’ve made hundreds of security decisions together. These include the formation of coalitions of defense support, sanctions against the aggressor, protection of markets, including the energy and food markets, and protection of Ukraine's financial stability.
Every decision to protect Ukraine and freedom guarantees the preservation of the international rules-based order. As a house grows from bricks, so does freedom grow from our decisions – we guarantee it. We, the democracies.
And our response, in fact, is a basis for mandatory rules for preventing aggression.
Ukraine emphasizes the principle of preventive security. That’s why our proposals for the package of security guarantees for Ukraine – when they become operational – will become the peacekeeping factor. And not only for us.
There are security umbrellas in the world. And they should open when the sky turns black. But how will it happen? And will freedom survive while the security umbrella is being expanded to include a new ally?
As our actions during this war saved international law and freedom, our security guarantees will work to prevent the tragedy of war. They will work to stop the potential aggressor.
Ukraine would like to see our teams dot the i's and cross the t's on security guarantees before Vilnius, the Summit that the Euro-Atlantic waits for.
for giving meaning to the global brand of security for democracy! Thank you for leadership, weapons, and decision to train our pilots. I believe that the wings of our common freedom will be no doubt the strongest in the world! I thank both parties in the Congress, your team, Mr. President, and all freedom-loving American hearts.
for your strong will which changes history in favor of democracy, and for the long-term defence and financial support of Ukraine, which gives strength to all of our free Europe. I thank your Government, I thank the Bundestag and all the people of Germany.
 for your energy that gives us more visionary and far-reaching capabilities. I believe that your leadership will help to give true force of law when, together with our partners, we’ll create the Tribunal on Russia's aggression. I thank your fellow ministers, the British Parliament and all the British people.
for protecting the values of the Republic and for the fact that French support of Ukraine is a manifestation of respect for the freedom of nations, for equality in international relations and for fraternity among people. Thank you, France!
 for the strength of her character that gives us all strength. I thank the Italian Government, the Parliament and all Italians who support the protection of our people.
 for your ability to be the first in many issues. It is very important to bring to results our joint work in Ukraine’s demining, it truly saves lives. I thank the entire political class and all the people of Canada who value peace so much.
 for making the European institutions more than institutions. They said once that European Union is a bureaucracy. And you prove that our community is based not on bureaucracy, but on common values which give us a strong course!
 for the obvious leadership of Japan in Asia in protecting international law, thank you for the comprehensive support from your state and your people. 
We’re united by one more principle – rationality. We always act practically protecting our values. And the Ukrainian Peace Formula is an obvious expression of rationality. I thank you for supporting our Formula.
The day before, I was at the Summit of the League of Arab States, and we’re doing everything to unite the whole world around the Peace Formula – around the Peace Summit, which will give momentum to the implementation of the Formula.
And I would like to discuss the steps to make the Formula working and the details of the organization of the Peace Summit – as a part of our meetings today.
