2023-07-05
Volodymyr Zelenskyy during a conversation with the university community of Argentina: We want Latin America to join the support of the Peace Formula

                                            

                                            

                                        
Ukraine seeks to increase support for the Peace Formula from Latin American countries, including Argentina, as the points of the Formula are related to overcoming all crises caused by Russian aggression. This was stated by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy during a video conference with students and lecturers of the University of Buenos Aires and other Argentine universities.
The online meeting was attended by about 400 students, heads of educational institutions, professors, heads of foreign diplomatic missions, etc.
"We have proposed the Peace Formula and would like all states to unite around it. Our troops are pushing the enemy out with weapons, and politicians and societies of other countries can support us in various peace initiatives. We want Latin America to join, and we want Argentina to join. This is very important," Volodymyr Zelenskyy said, answering students' questions.
The President emphasized that all the points of the Ukrainian Peace Formula are specific and related to overcoming all the crises that Ukrainians have experienced or are experiencing as a result of Russian aggression.
"If we are talking about nuclear security, it is not only because we are afraid of an explosion at the Zaporizhzhia NPP, as this is a challenge not only for Ukraine, but also for the whole world. We are going through all these crises, we are sharing, unfortunately, this tragic experience, and we have solutions to these issues. But for this, we need the world to unite around these problems, to put political pressure on Russia and to resolve all these crises," he explained.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy also emphasized the need for Latin American states to join the sanctions against Russia until justice is achieved and Russia stops its aggression.
"The Russian leadership must feel that they are isolated. They should not be welcome in some African countries, they should not be allowed to do business with Latin America. It's unacceptable to shake the blood-stained hand of the leader of Russia. Because he gave all these orders. And here Latin American countries can take a more active position," the President is convinced.
In addition, Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Latin American countries to politically support Ukraine, in particular during the consideration of UN resolutions initiated by our state, to provide humanitarian assistance to Ukrainian civilians suffering from the consequences of the full-scale Russian invasion.
"We definitely did not want this war. The Ukrainian people are going through these trials, and this is a great tragedy. Because war means only losses. But in order not to lose everything we have, we have to win. That's why we started fighting so that we would not be destroyed. We did not enter the territory of Russia - they entered our homes, killed and raped children," the Head of State emphasized.
The President noted that the end of the war means the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity and the establishment of justice by holding all those responsible for war crimes accountable.
"Parents who lost their children, children who lost their parents, men who lost their women, women who lost their men, loved ones who lost each other... You can't just say: "That's it, we're done, no one is shooting anymore." The end of the war is justice. And this means, first of all, sentencing the killers. And when all this is done, then the war will end. We will bring this time closer. History shows that there must be justice, the murderers must be put behind bars, Ukraine's control over its land must be restored, and the aggressor, as it has been in many wars in the world, must recognize that it is an aggressor," Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
Speaking about relations with Argentina, he called for the development of closer relations.
"Ukraine can be a good partner in many areas, in different spheres. And I would like to communicate more and have our governments work together," the Head of State said.
The President also noted that economic stability is extremely important for Ukraine today, and our country will welcome the steps of businessmen from all over the world who are ready to invest in Ukraine and create jobs.
Addressing the Argentine students, Volodymyr Zelenskyy emphasized that young people should spread the truth.
"It is important for us to maintain relationships between students, to connect with people of your age who are very interesting to you. Constant communication is important. And when you feel the call of your heart and are not afraid, you can come and see what Ukraine is, what our people are like. You will draw your own conclusions, see the consequences of the war and bring this information to your society," the Head of State noted.
At the end of the meeting, Volodymyr Zelenskyy expressed his hope that Ukraine would be heard in Argentina and throughout Latin America.
"And I would really like the leaders of your continent to give us the opportunity to meet more often. I think our meeting in person would be very important," he said.
The University of Buenos Aires is the largest university in Argentina and one of the most prestigious in Latin America. More than 300 thousand students study at 13 faculties. About 30% of scientific research in Argentina is conducted at the University of Buenos Aires. In the world ranking QS World University Rankings 2023: Top global universities, the institution was ranked 67th.
