2023-03-24
The enemy must know: Ukraine won't forgive offenses against our people, won't forgive these deaths and injuries – address of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy

                                            

                                            

                                        
Today, I took part in two events of gratitude and respect for our soldiers – our defenders.
Young officers graduated from the educational institutions of the National Guard of Ukraine. All of them go to the permanent defense and security forces, the units of our National Guard, which, together with all our soldiers, defend Ukraine.
I am grateful to our boys and girls who have chosen such a path of service to Ukraine, to the future of the Ukrainian people – the path of officers. Thanks to all the families of our young professional soldiers for such sons and daughters.
Patriotic, brave and effective, those who chose the opportunity to act for the defense of our state and people as their profession.
Today, on the eve of the Day of the Security Service of Ukraine, I congratulated the staff of the Security Service of Ukraine, all our security service personnel.
It is definitely worth noting: the Security Service of Ukraine is undergoing a fundamental internal transformation.
The service was fully mobilized for the real defense of the state. And it is now giving Ukraine such results that each of us can only be proud of.
The SSU staff is fighting the external enemy, neutralizing internal threats, putting a historical end to any attempts by Russia to manipulate Ukraine through agents.
Today, I thanked all the SSU employees. And I am sure that the Service will give Ukraine even more results in defending the state.
I had the honor to present state awards to soldiers from the SSU and National Guard ranks.
I am sincerely grateful for the strength that can be felt in the eyes of our fighters. The strength of those who are able to win for Ukraine.
I met today with a delegation from the World Bank. We do not lose a single day for international contacts, we work at all levels.
The current support programs for Ukraine and promising new ones were discussed.
Of course, we focused on reconstruction – everything that needs to be done in many Ukrainian cities and villages that suffered terrorist attacks by the occupier.
Residential buildings, social infrastructure, the economic basis of life – all this needs to be rebuilt. And I thank the partners for understanding that timing and coordination of efforts are crucial.
As always, today I will mention our fighters, who gave the best result in the past day.
First of all, in Donetsk region.
Glorious 72nd separate mechanized brigade named after the Black Zaporozhians – thank you, guys! Marines of the 36th brigade – well done! The 55th Separate Artillery Brigade Zaporizka Sich – thank you, soldiers, for your constant accuracy, real battle-hardened deeds!
Marines of the 35th brigade and the 79th separate air assault brigade – thank you!
Zaporizhzhia direction: the 44th Artillery Brigade named after Hetman Danylo Apostol – thank you for the accuracy!
I would like to mention all our fighters who strike at the occupier in response to terror, who identify the enemy's positions from which they attack our cities. Each destroyed terrorists' position is the saved life of our people.
I thank the Armed Forces, intelligence, and Security Service personnel – everyone who is involved in performing this task... The fair fire response to those who are the source of terror.
Such strikes as on Kostiantynivka today, as many other of our cities... The enemy must know: Ukraine won't forgive offenses against our people, won't forgive these deaths and injuries.
All Russian terrorists will be defeated.
Thanks to everyone who brings the Ukrainian victory closer! Glory to everyone who is fighting for Ukraine!
Eternal memory to all those whose lives were taken by Russia and its terrorist war!
 
